We are building out the same
user interface we had before.
There it is.
I'm typing into my input field,
but I first got to click on it,
which is gonna remove my default text,
what's up?
As I type,
I get a preview of what I've typed.
Very, very simple user interface.
However, even that involves a lot
of reasoning about back and
forth between our data.
And if we added ten handlers,
the flow between
them of what the user's behavior was,
I'm gonna have what we saw here.
At its core, I'm gonna have so
many different places that I
can affect what the user sees.
I'm gonna have so
many different places where I can
affect the content that is
being viewed by the user.
And we are in a high-stakes environment.
If what the user sees does not look like
what's actually going on and we can't work
out why, we're in a really difficult
position, because users were brought up
from one year old that what they see is
how the world actually is under the hood.
So they're really upset.
Even latency in a server,
if you're writing server code errors,
a lot of them are gonna be basically
blocked before they reach the user,
not when it comes to
the user in face code.
Not only that,
it's running on their machine,
meaning you've just passed them a bunch of
code to execute on their local machine.
Meaning it's very hard to track
what are the changes, plus we
are very well able to test visually
what you see as a user on the page.
We're in a tough environment, so
the more predictable we can make our code,
the more we can minimize where changes
in what we see you can even happen,
the more that I can track through
data through some sort of
description of how to
display it on the page.
And then whenever the user
takes action not for
it to have a bunch of custom changes to
what the user sees based on an action but
to change only data, and then run
that single same converter function,
not five different places, but
change data and then create the view.
That creates a restriction on us as well
that every single thing that the user sees
must depend on, or
all content at least in this case,
must depend on some sort of data.
Otherwise, how's it even showing up?
So we're requiring change to data and
all things user sees must
be defined first in data.
So there's no mysterious thing showing up
that are a result of an ad hoc change of
what's being displayed in
some handler function, but
only through stored state posh word for
our data that describes,
that's where state becomes a really useful
term as opposed to a very strange term
because it describes
the state of the universe.
It describes all possible
changeable things, in our case,
the state of the universe,
it'd be like the underlying atoms and
where they are in XYZ
coordinates of this pen.
Same thing here, we have our underlying
data describing all possible things about
the application that can be displayed and
then changed by the user.
So let's do it, people.
Let's do it.
So here we go.
Let's put our JavaScript
runtime on this side.
We have our DOM implemented in C++ here,
>> You're DOM big,
and the browser window is full.
>> Yeah, perfect.
That's actually brilliant.
Yeah, I mean, that's wide enough, right?
And then our actual pixels, even this
is probably still wasteful, isn't it?
Dear.
Should I have made it wider?
No, that's okay, I think that's okay.
There's our output pixels.
This is our output pixels.
Honestly, it's a rendered image that
gets sent to the graphics card 60 times
a second.
Rasterized image, the layout engine goes
where are those elements be positioned on
this particular screen size and
device type based on the list of elements,
all we had to do was add to the C++ list?
And then the render engine as a whole
is gonna work out the exact pixels as
a composite image compositing all
those different divs, and images, and
honestly, animations
happening 60 times a second.
That image is then being rasterized,
turns a bunch of pixels to be sent to
a graphics card to be displayed, okay?
And then here is our
exactly as we heard there,
our DOM,
which is a list in our C++ run time and
it has initially, what on it?
Phil, help me out.
What's on it initially?
On our C++ DOM here.
>> So we have input or input element.
Yeah, input node, input element, exactly.
I'm actually gonna put it
right on the side here, so
that we have lots of room to add its
handlers and its value property.
We can even put those in now so
that we have it ready to go.
And then its handlers.
Its handlers, that may work.
Look at that.
That actually makes me really happy.
>> Is handlers.
What's our next element, Phil?
>> We have our div elements.
>> Div, and that has some text.
Beautiful.
And the last one.
>> Our script.
Helpfully, we can only run JavaScript
via linking it in our C++ DOM element.
Beautiful.
Okay, let's actually have
a little schema here.
This is a reminder for
ourselves so we don't lose track.
Our HTML file can load in.
I will say this, as I said,
hard parts the model is,
it starts hard and it becomes tedious.
That's what a review.
But there we go.
That's what ensures.
We can never forget it,
hopefully ever again.
And that's why it's my job to be
as hype as possible to help you,
that's not my job, actually,
it's a very tragic job,
to help you keep pushing through
building this mental model on
repeat because I would not,
what a way to spend the day.
All right, there it is.
JavaScript loads from the HTML file,
the DOM is going to display
the actual pixels on
the page via the layout and render engine.
And JavaScript has a bunch of functions,
no, objects by name that
are full of methods that give access to
all sorts of areas of the web browser, but
what we're most interested in is
the one that gives access to document.
So let's start running
our JavaScript code.
There's our memory,
I Should probably start calling people.
>> Don't forget to -.
>> Yes, thank you.
Alexis right there, not by writing input.
>> [LAUGH]
>> That's not how it works exactly, but
instead, our layout and
render engine is much cleverer than,
obviously, than myself.
And there it is.
It's our beautiful page.
Thank you to Alexa.
Now what is this document object
gonna have in our memory?
Talk me through it.
>> Yeah, it's exposed by the global
context by the browser, and
it allows you to access the document
object model in JavaScript and
set up links to the different.
>> From JavaScript, exactly.
In C++, so from JavaScript, exactly.
And exactly as you rightly say, it's
gonna have access via this hidden link,
technically referenced as a C++ pointer
to that position in C++ memory,
it's a symbol as well.
It as simple as that, people.
Simple as that.
And we have in it a whole bunch of
methods, a slew of methods, but we're
going to only use one here that I can see
why, what's the one we're going to use?
>> It looks like query selector.
>> Beautiful, query selector.
Absolutely, and that is perfect.
A function that is going to when
it gets called, go to the link,
see that it's linked to this
model of the webpage in C++.
Query it for whatever the given selector,
whatever the given label by which
we're gonna select an element is, and
then return for
us a link to that particular element.
And that's exactly what we do right now.
So I don't know, do we have space in
general to do a call stack up there and
a callback queue, or is it better?
This is sort of freed up space here,
right, maybe we can do it.
From now on I think we're going
to do our call stack here.
I think that's fine, it didn't do
any harm, and then we have our
callback queue just so that we're
not running out of horizontal space.
So that's our JavaScript call stack and
our callback queue.
And so let's get going into our
JavaScript thread of execution.
Okay, we have some data being saved,
we have accessor objects for
div and input on the DOM.
We then save two functions that
our handlers, handle click on
handle input, assign them to
their associated DOM objects,
we also save a function data to view.
This is our core function that's going to
translate based on, one word we might use
for it is description of the relationship
between that underlying data and
what the user sees such that everything
the user sees that could ever be
changed by them must be via a change
of that data and then an execution or
running of the corresponding
data to view converter function.
No mysteries,
no which of our ten handlers was this
change what the user sees caused by.
Nope, we have one place, one function
that converts underlying state,
underlying data,
underlying content into view.
It requires some kind of creative thinking
in terms of how can we ensure that
everything that a user sees is defined
as a consequence of some changeable data
in JavaScript.
But you know what that is?
You know what that is?
That's good reasoning, that's reasoning
that I can get my head around.
That's everything in the view must
be a consequence of underlying data,
that's not under seven different
pathways through user handles.
I'm perhaps implicitly changing data but
I'm changing the view, no.
And everything must depend on like for
like, one-to-one data in
memory that generates a given view for
that particular moment of data.
Okay, so let's do it, people.
Yeah.
Ian, please.
>> Is that what one way data binding is,
where the view is a function of state,
it goes from the data to the view,
the one way?
>> Yeah, exactly.
I like to think as we're gonna see in a
moment, cuz we're still gonna have to get
data from the user when they type here,
it comes back to JavaScript.
So how is that one way?
The way I think about that is it ends up
being like a submission to JavaScript.
Hey, I just type the letters HE,
or I just type the letters Y, or
I just type the letters IAN,
can you, if the handler does it,
update the data in some way
based off my user action?
Yes, user action contains data, but
the handlers determine how you're
going to update the data,
it not like it's gonna flow automatically.
It's a submission by the user,
which we are then going to in the handler
function determine how to update the data.
What is guaranteed is the data to view
conversion back, well, not back, but
the data convert.
Whatever the data is in memory, that
is gonna determine what shows up here.
Now, we then have handlers
that can change that data, but
that's on us to then write
those handles in such a way.
What is fixed is the relationship
from the data in that data to view
function permanently says take
the data here, and nothing on this
display can be that has not been
determined from data here in memory.
So one way is a bit of a -.
>> The view are really the one
I'll take care of handling view.
So we always selectively take the data
from a view when we want to, and
the data just always -.
>> Pass every bit of data.
I like that.
>> Everything -.
>> What a nice way of putting it in.
>> Yeah, it marches, that's really nice.
We will -.
>> [INAUDIBLE] whatever comes.
>> We control what comes into the data
via the user's specific actions,
what we don't control is everything in
data will always populate to the view.
No sort of deciding which bit
we're gonna update on the view.
It's like you can change data from
just one action from the user,
there's lots and lots of different
places that can change the data,
but there's only one place that
can then repropagate that all out.
So it's like a very narrow flow back to
the data specific only to the user action.
We're not re-grabbing all data back to
the underlying data, so we're not grabbing
the whole DOM worth of data, but just
one small piece comes change comes back.
But from this direction,
from this ocean, all pieces will update.
So it's like a very narrow and then
a sort of spray back out the whole way.
Yeah, so I mean, it's always two way,
cuz other is how you get the data back.
>> Yeah.
>> But the direction from the user,
from the view to the data
is very pinpoint, and
also very custom based on every single
possible action the user can take.
Whereas the flow back, the one way
we refer to is very broad complete,
and automatic, and
unspecific, it's everything.
And that means we have no reasoning
to do about which bits to display.
And that's because, A,
we can't see it when the user sees it.
B, we wanna have it as simple and
predictable as possible.
D, there's lots of different
ways that could change and
we're not really sure,
whereas when the user takes an action,
we can probably narrow it down to a small
piece of data that needs to change.
Whereas what the user sees based off
that piece of data could be 50 different
things could change.
So let's have all of them, we don't need
to reason which ones need to change,
have them all change.
Absolutely, very, very thoughtful
question coming from Mathew there.